Hi We'll come back in this with you.
We're going to be looking at the connection from pool class in the last video.
It was a bit of a disappointment.
We did all these work and then it just wasn't the right thing.
Let's just quickly go over what we did in the last video.
Just to recap we first created a connection pool class that in the init method defined a property of
the object which was connection pool and that was a simple connection pool which as we know just creates
a connection pool with one connection at minimum and one at maximum.
So one connection then we also define the enter and exit methods which are required to enter into the
with clause.
And what happens when we exit the with clause.
Let's go into the User class at the start of the with clause the end method gets called and at the end
of the with clause the exit method gets called.
What we did was to at the start of the with method return a new connection from the connection pool
.
And that gets assigned to the connection variable.
However this calls the init method as well.
So what was happening is that we were creating a new connection pool object which was initializing a
new connection pool.
And then we were getting the only connection available in that pool.
So whenever we were entering into this with statement we were creating an entirely new connection pool
and we were creating an entirely new connection in that pool.
And then we were assigning that new connection to connection.
And what that means is that we have a lot of overhead because we were creating not only new connections
but also new connection pools.
We learned how to implement the with clause using enter that gets executed beginning and exit at the
end.
But we didn't find the correct solution for our problem.
The solution requires that at the end we are able to return the connection to the pool.
And that would be self connection pool dot put corn and in here we need to put the connection that we
want to return.
However we don't have access to that connection because we're returning it.
The connection goes over to the user class in this variable and then it is not given back to this exit
method so we don't have access to it.
We can't put it back.
So here's the solution.
And then I'll explain why this is I'm going to cut this thing from there put it in here and then I'm
going to rename the connection pool class to be connection from pool and this connection from pool class
is representing one connection from this pool here.
And instead of self not Connection Pool what I'm going to keep track of in each of the objects is the
connection that it represents.
So I'm going to say something like self-dual connection is none.
When we create a new connection from pool object the connection that it represents is none.
It doesn't represent any connections when we call the enter method which is at the beginning of the
with statement.
It is going to get a new connection from the pool and then it's going to return that connection.
So another connection that we've gotten from the pool goes over to this variable there because we have
that in the property self-dual connection when we get to the exit method.
We can do connection pool or put on self talk connection and that is how we can return these connections
.
The next thing to do is to go to a User class and instead of importing connection pool which no longer
exists.
Import connection from pool and then just replace those there as well.
So now this seems to be method is getting a new connection from pool and calling it connection.
Now this makes sense.
This is creating a new connection from the pool and calling it connection before we saw that was sort
of creating a new connection pool which is what he was doing.
So that didn't make sense but this does with a new connection from the pool called connection.
Perform the following.
That is how it reads and it makes sense.
And now we know that at the beginning what this does is get a new connection from the pool and then
return it.
Which means that new connection goes into this variable connection and then at the end that variable
connection calls this exit method with itself that's self.
And then it puts itself back into the connection pool.
I've been talking a lot today so apologies if I do sound a bit rough.
Okay let's let's have a play around with this.
I'm going to go into Peasey hetmans three run this thing here we can see that we've called these five
rows and I'm going to go into the app and we're going to create a new Smith put in a database then load
this from the file.
We should see this printed out as down there.
And finally we are going to be saving another use of the database.
Let's run the app.
What do you think is going to happen.
Do you think is going to work.
What do you think is not going to work.
And if so why.
I would recommend Really.
Now if you want to really learn and understand what's going on pause the video.
I'll tell you it's not a work and think about why it's not going to work.
Let's press play.
OK.
It seems to work that's going to be the main three.
We've got five rows and we've still got five rows.
So evidently our inserts did not work in area.
Why.
Any idea why it may not work.
OK.
I hope you got it.
We have to commit that connection.
And now you're seeing what we're using with this committee commits the connection at the end and you
are right it does.
If this here is a connection but that is no longer a connection that is a connection from pool which
we've created.
We need to deal with everything else we need to deal now with returning the connection to the pool in
the same way that we need to deal with closing the connection and committing it because we don't want
to close the connection.
We just want to put them back in the pool.
We still have to deal with committing them.
And I think that's fair.
If this was a connection that's psycho-BS the two don't connect thing already deals with this with the
statement.
But our class did not.
So now it does.
Now it is able to commit.
And if we run the app again which I just did and we go to Jetman 3 and we run this again.
Now we have a few more.
As you can see it's had jumped a few numbers.
I find it disturbing that they are all these Smiths are called the Rowlf but nevertheless it's going
to stay like that.
OK.
So this was quite a dance video with a lot of stuff going on in it.
But essentially what we've done is created a connection pool which is outside of any class and then
we have created a classical connection from pool which when we initiated it creates a connection property
when we enter the with statement.
It gets a connection from the pool.
And when we exit the with statement or the with clause we commits the connection and then we put it
back in the pool and that's all we've done in this video.
And that really explains sort of I'm trying to get you into the zone where you understand that the computer
is extremely extremely frustratingly stupid and you need to remember and think what is the computer
doing and what is it not doing.
And both of those questions are really important to remember.
You need to be thinking about those two.
What is the computer doing.
What is it not doing and what do I want it to do.
And how do I accomplish that.
That's the objective of this we not only to teach you how to do X Y and Zed with Python but rather to
teach you a set of skills that will allow you to do that with any programming language.
So with that said let's move on to the next video and I show you